# Anchors: Linking a inside an HTML document 


Sometimes you need to link to a particular section of a document. For example, instead of something like:

```
Visit the [guide](guide.html) if you need a tutorial.
```

You might want to be more specific: 

```
Visit the [guide](guide.html#tutorial) if you need a tutorial.
```

The `#tutorial` part of the link is informally known an anchor. 

## Linking inside the same HTML file 

If you  are linking within a document you omit the filename. For example:

```
Visit the [guide](#tutorial) etc.
```

## Anchors in headings are added automatically 

The easiest way to use anchors is to link to a heading. Take a look at the following shortened document as an example:

```
# Guide

## Table of Contents

[Tutorial](#tutorial)

(Pages of imaginary text go here)

## Tutorial

How to....

## Typical workflow for WordPress users

```

The `[Tutorial](#tutorial)` link works because Metabuzz automatically adds an anchor for each headings. Spaces are converted to hyphens, other nonalphabetic characters are stripped, and letters are converted to lowercase. So in the above example a link to the last header would look like this: 

```
If you're a WordPress user, try the [typical workflow for WordPress users](#typical-workflow-for-wordpress-users) section.
```

## HTML version: Add anchors anywhere in the document 

What if you want to link to a place other than a heading, or want to shorten the link? The best way is to drop into HTML, because the CommonMark specification doesn't have a way to define anchors.

A reminder: there's absolutely nothing wrong or unusual about adding HTML to a Markdown document. (Just remember that it has to start the line, or at least in the first three spaces of the line.)

You can add a custom anchor tag using HTML like this:

```
<a id="gallery"></a>
A note about the gallery of user contributions etc.
```

Use this method to put anchors anywhere in the document. Or use it to create shorter heading anchors than the ones generated by Metabuzz.


## Risky extended Markdown shortcut: add shorter anchors to headings

The wonderful [Goldmark Markdown parser](https://github.com/yuin/goldmark) used by Metabuzz has implemented a currently nonstandard idea discussed in the [CommonMark forum](https://talk.commonmark.org/t/consistent-attribute-syntax/272). It's called attributes, and it involves ending the heading line with anchor text surrounded by `{#` on the left and `}` on the right. So you could do it like this:

```
## Long section title here {#l}
```
And your link would be used as shown: 

```
visit the [long section title here](#l)
```


